---
layout: default
title:  "An Artist's Guide to Computation"
categories: [teaching, coding, writing]
time: "January 2017 - present"
tags: [creative coding, women in STEAM, inclusive tech, accessible tech]
glance: ["managed online community since January 2017", "published weekly newsletter since October 2018", "100s of subscribers with an avg. open rate of over 40%"]
slug: agtc
permalink: /work-samples/:slug/
summary: "An Artist's Guide to Computation is my weekly newsletter of resources, opportunities, and events for artists and creative technologists."
---


An Artist's Guide to Computation began as a community group in 2017 and became a weekly newletter in 2018 that I write and distribute. I was inspired by a twofold disconnect that I often see: that artists trained in traditional media often feel intimidated to explore cutting edge technology due to a lack of welcoming resources, and that programmers and technologists doing incredibly creative work often do not consider themselves to be artists due to a lack of a traditional arts education. 

Each week, I highlight inspiring projects and educational resources, promote events, and share opportunities with a tight knit community of creative coders, artists, and technologists. In particular I try to emphasize resources by and for creators who are marginalized by the commercial and academic worlds of technology and art, as well as open calls that provide a more equitable playing field for these creators. If we want the arts and technology to have a moral compass, we need to be better at including female identified creators, non-binary creators, queer creators, and people of color. We also need to promote resources that are affordable and accessible, and be aware of the socioeconomic barriers to most cutting-edge technology.

For all its lofty ambitions, I try to keep a light and playful tone. Making things should be fun and exciting and cathartic!

It's a labor of love that has helped me find a lot of talented & generous creators and organizers who are operating outside of mainstream tech. The newsletter content is free to all, though I encourage those who can afford it to support the work with a paid subscription.

Beginning in January 2020, I will also be hosting monthly virtual residencies in conjunction with the newsletter to promote new works by diverse creators. To be considered please [email me](mailto:info@marthahipley.com) with your name, a bit about you, and what you'd like to share.

<iframe width="480" height="320" src="https://artistsguidetocomputation.substack.com/embed" frameborder="0" scrolling="no"></iframe>

